High in this video we're going to take a deeper look at the keyword arguments that we saw in the on
your lectures.
So just recall that positional parameters can optionally be passed as named keyword awards arguments.
So for example if we define a function with three positional parameters a b and c we can certainly call
it this way.
We pass the three values 1 2 and 3 and they will be positionally mapped.
That's why they called positional parameters and so we get A's and B's and C's three on the other hand
we can specify our arguments by naming them as well.
Even though they're positional arguments are positional parameters when with the finding them in the
function we can actually specify them using named keyword arguments.
And because of that remember that also we don't have to keep the ordering the same that's what's handy
about using keyword arguments.
So Python is going to see this.
It's going to look at the function and say well I'm really expecting three positional arguments but
you've given me three named arguments that have the same names as the parameters.
So that's good and it's going to map it appropriately.
So we'll get the same thing.
We'll get a as one these two indices three but do note that using named arguments in this case is entirely
up to the caller.
Right.
We can call it using just one common two common three.
There was nothing forcing the caller to use a named argument for any of those parameters.
So sometimes we want to make those keyword arguments mandatory.
Now what we want people to specify an argument using a name so we can make them mandatory and to do
so we only need to make sure that we've exhausted all the positional parameters and then specify another
parameter.
So what I mean by that.
Well exactly in this example here.
Here we have two mandatory positional parameters and this one here the Starmen with the stack.
Does it kind of exhaust the remaining positional arguments that are found when the function is called.
And that will then go into the tuple which will be called.
Or whatever you want to name it.
But then noticed this D that comes after that.
Well if we've exhausted all the positional parameters all the positional arguments those can't be a
positional argument and in fact it becomes a keyword argument and it has to be specified as a keyword
argument.
So in that case to effectively exhaust all the positional arguments and deam must be passed as a keyword
we could call it this way we can call from one comment to comment X come a y.
So what will happen.
Well one is going to go into a two is going to go into B X and Y are still positional parameters they're
not named that of keywords.
So they're going to be assigned to the tuple.
And then we have this key word argument equals 100.
So it's going to look at that and say OK so you want 100 to go into D.
So this will actually work and we'll get exactly what we expect.
Remember from the last video when we specified another parameter here without the equals we added an
exception because it was basically another positional parameter.
It was not a keyword argument.
And so Python complained saying well no I can't do that because you exhausted all the positional parameters
in this stark expression over here.
So we can even call the function this way.
One comment to add equals 100 what's going to happen is that while a and b are mandatory positionally
they're going to get 1 and 2 respectively and there'll be nothing in tongues because there are no additional
positional parameters and D will be 100.
So in fact we get equals one equals two ounces in empty topple and D is 100.
On the other hand if we try and call the function this way we've just one come to the first two positional
arguments this will fail.
This is going to give us an exception when we try to run this.
Why.
Because Python is expecting a keyword argument which he did not find.
So we'll get an error.
Now we can even omit any mandatory position along humans.
Look at this function.
Define Phunk with just start on comedy.
Well that means that we're not requiring any position along humans.
We're just saying hey you can pass as many as you want which could be none.
But we do expect a keyword argument after those positional events.
So let's see how we might call this function we might call it with one comma to come a three and equal
to 100 in which case we'll end up with almost equal to the tuple 1 2 3 and D will be 100.
We could also call it this way Phunk with D'Qwell to 100.
There are no positional arguments in this call.
And so we end up with an empty top of four ounce and then D will still be equal to 100 now we can actually
force no positional arguments at all.
All we can actually stop the positional arguments at some point and to do that we use this stuff.
We don't use that and then the name it's just down by itself and you can think of it this way you can
think of the star as indicating the end of positional arguments but without actually trying to grab
positional arguments and put them into words it's basically not saying you know I can have an arbitrary
number of arguments here.
This is saying none.
I don't want any right.
I'm not going to look for positional arguments after this point.
And because we don't have any positional arguments specified before that this effectively means that
we have no positional arguments that we can pass to this function.
So let's take a look.
If we try and call the function this way one comma two common three while is going go look at the function
definition and say well wait a minute I don't have any positional parameters defined here.
You cannot pass positional arguments so this will actually create an exception it will fail to run.
On the other hand we can call it this way.
We have just the keyword argument with no positional arguments and that will work just fine and D will
actually be equal to 100 which is what we specify there.
OK so let's put it altogether.
So let's look at this function first.
Here we have a.
And here we have a so I've got two functions and the only difference is that here I've got style arms
and here I've got just the stuff.
And let's take a look at the similarities and the differences between these two definitions.
So a is in both and in and both times a is the first positional parameter.
It doesn't have a default value so a is essentially a mandatory positional argument which may be specified
using of course a named argument.
Right.
When you call the function you can call it with a equals some value.
That's fine but it's actually positional parameter here in the function.
Now B is an optional positional argument because we have provided a default value in both cases.
So we don't have to specify B when we call the function.
It will take on its default value if we don't.
Next we have stout arms on this side.
So what this means is that this becomes a catch all for any and there are of course optional additional
positional arguments.
We don't have to specify any but we can if we want to.
On the other hand in here this the notes that no additional positional arguments are allowed.
So in this case we are only allowing two positional arguments here.
We're saying we need at least two positional arguments.
The rest of them will be stored in arms.
Here we are saying we have two positional arguments at most and we will not be looking or accepting
any other position along moments in this case because B is default has a default.
In fact this means that we really only have one mandatory position along event to which will be mapped
individually to a and b and then the remaining if any will be in.
Lastly we have D and E D is a keyword arguments and it comes after the star expression.
In this case D does not have a default.
So D is a mandatory argument and it's a mandatory keyword argument.
On the other hand e which is also a keyword argument it has a default value in both cases which means
that it's now an optional parameter and therefore it becomes an optional keyword argument which also
defaults to true.
OK so let's get a little confusing.
So let's switch to some code and let's see all this in action.
It will become much clearer as we work through that.
And I really highly suggest that once you've gone through the code section the next video that you play
around with it yourself as well before you go onto the next lecture because we're going to add additional
complexity to this whole thing.
So play around with it make sure that you're comfortable of what happens when you have positional parameters
when you use the star when you use the star.
And you have keyword arguments after that and how you can call it and so on.
Just play around with it see what works see what doesn't work.
That's the best way to learn this stuff.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.